To consume an event in an application, you must provide an event handler (an event-handling method) that executes program logic in response to the event and register the event handler with the event source. This process is referred to as event wiring.

This topic describes the general pattern of handling events.

## The Event Pattern

- A class that owns an event named `EventName` has the following member:
```java
public final Event<EventNameEventArgs> eventName = new Event<>(EventNameEventArgs.class);
```

- The event delegate for the `EventName` event is constructed as follows:
```java
Delegate eventNameDelegate = Delegate.create(target, "onEventName", EventNameEventArgs.class);
```

To consume the `EventName` event, your event handler must have the following signature:
```java
public void onEventName(Object sender, EventNameEventArgs e) {}
```

When an event does not have any associated data, it uses [`EventArgs`][EventArgs] for the event data. Events that have associated data use classes that derive from `EventArgs` for the event data type. For example, if you want to handle a `TouchUp` event, the event data class is `TouchEventArgs`. Note that several touch events use a common class for event data, so the naming scheme does not exactly match the convention described above. For the touch events, your subclass must override following methods:
```java
public void onTouchDown(Object sender, TouchEventArgs e) {}
public void onTouchMove(Object sender, TouchEventArgs e) {}
public void onTouchUp(Object sender, TouchEventArgs e) {}
```

The sender and event argument parameters supply additional details about the touch event to the event handler. The sender object indicates what raised the event. The `TouchEventArgs` parameter provides details on the touch movement that raised the event. Many event sources provide additional data for the event, and many event handlers use the event-specific data in processing the event.

**Note:** Events also arise outside the context of user interfaces (UIs), and, in fact, the InAir Framework includes many non-UI classes that raise events. However, all events follow the pattern described here.

[EventArgs]: http://developer.inair.tv/documents/inair/event/EventArgs.html