If you want your class to raise an event, you must provide the following three elements:

- A class that provides event data.
- An event delegate.
- A class that raises the event.

## Defining a Class to Provide Event Data

By convention in the InAir Framework, when an event is raised, it passes event data to its event handlers. The event data is provided by the `EventArgs` class or by a class that is derived from it.

An event often has no custom data; the fact that the event was fired provides all the information that event handlers require. In this case, the event can pass an `EventArgs` object to its handlers. The `EventArgs` class has only a single member, `Empty`. It can be used to instantiate a new `EventArgs` class.

If an event does have custom data, it can pass an instance of a class derived from `EventArgs` to event handlers. Depending on the precise data the event passes to handlers, you may be able to use an existing event data class in the InAir Framework. For example, if your event handler processes touches, you can use the `TouchEventArgs` class.

When you need to provide custom data to handlers and an existing class is not available, you can define your own event data class. It must derive from `EventArgs`. By convention, this class is named *EventName***EventArgs**. The following example illustrates such a custom event data class. It defines a class named `AlarmEventArgs` that provides two items of data to event handlers: the read-only `Time` property, which indicates when the alarm went off; and the `Snooze` property, which indicates whether the alarm should go off again after a designated interval or whether future alarms should be canceled.

```java
public class AlarmEventArgs extends EventArgs {
  public final Date alarmTime;
  public final boolean snoozeOn = true;

  public AlarmEventArgs(Date alarmTime) {
    this.alarmTime = alarmTime;
  }
}
```

## Constructing a Delegate for the Event

An event delegate is used to define the signature of the event. A particular event delegate typically corresponds to a particular event data class. By convention, events in the InAir Framework have the signature `onEventName(sender, e)`, where `sender` is an Object that provides a reference to the class or structure that fired the event, and `e` is an `EventArgs` object or an object derived from `EventArgs` that provides event data.

The following example constructs an event delegate named `alarmEventDelegate`.

```java
Delegate alarmEventDelegate = Delegate.create(clock, "onAlarmEvent", AlarmEventArgs.class);
```

## Defining a Class to Raise the Event

The class that raises the event must provide the event declaration. In addition, it must provide some logic to raise the event in a class property or method.

The following example declares an event named `alarmEvent`.
```java
public final Event<AlarmEventArgs> alarmEvent = new Event<>(AlarmEventArgs.class);
```

Once you have defined your event implementation, you must determine when to raise the event. You raise the event by calling the event's `raise` method.
```java
alarmEvent.raise(this, e);
```

The following example defines a method named `set` that contains the logic to fire the event. If the hours and the minutes of the alarm time equal the hours and minutes of the current time, the `set` method instantiates an `AlarmEventArgs` object and provides it with the time that the alarm went off. After the event handlers execute, it checks the value of the `snoozeOn` member. If `snoozeOn` is `false`, no more alarm events should be raised, so the `set` method can end. If `snoozeOn` is `true`, the time the alarm is to go off is incremented by the value of the `interval` member.
```java
public void set() {
  while (true) try {
    Thread.sleep(2000);
    Date currentTime = new Date();
    if (currentTime.getHours() == alarmTime.getHours() && currentTime.getMinutes() == alarmTime.getMinutes()) {
      AlarmEventArgs args = new AlarmEventArgs(currentTime);
      alarmEvent.raise(this, args);
      if (!args.snoozeOn) {
        return;
      } else {
        this.alarmTime = this.alarmTime.AddMinutes(this.interval);
      }
    }
  } catch (InterruptedException e) {
    e.printStackTrace();
  }
}
```